Title: CloudFlare CAPTCHA bypass
Authors: George Tankersley, Filippo Valsorda, Alex Davidson
Created: 19-Sep-2016 

Latest:
  2016-09-19

History: 
  (see repository commits)

Preface:
  Large parts of this specification are taken from an original draft written by 
  George Tankersley and Fillippo Valsorda 
  (https://github.com/gtank/captcha-draft/blob/master/captcha-plugin-draft.txt)  

Overview:

  In many IP reputation systems, Tor exits quickly become associated with
  abuse.  Because of this, Tor Browser users quickly become familiar with
  various CAPTCHA challenges. The worst of these is CloudFlare- since their
  CAPTCHA service requires JavaScript to serve anything but unreadable noise,
  they render an increasingly large portion of the internet inaccessible to Tor
  Browser users.

  This document describes a solution to this problem. We propose a Tor Browser
  plugin that will store a finite set of unlinkable CAPTCHA bypass tokens and a
  server-side redemption system that will consume them, allowing users to
  forego solving a CAPTCHA so long as they supply a valid token.

Introduction:

  CloudFlare uses an IP reputation database to serve challenge pages to users 
  who are deemed to be malicious. Specifically in the case of Tor, each user is 
  given the IP address of the exit node that their connection traverses through. 
  Tor exit nodes are typically assigned poor IP reputation scores due to the 
  amount of abuse that is targeted through these IPs. The effect of this is that 
  regular users are presented with a large number of CAPTCHA pages when 
  attempting to visit websites protected by CloudFlare (this also affects users 
  of I2P and VPN services). 

  While they are intended as a minor inconvenience, they are impenetrable for 
  users with high privacy or security requirements. Google's ReCAPTCHA service 
  de facto demands JavaScript execution- the challenges it produces without JS 
  have degraded to such an extent that humans frequently cannot solve them. 
  Worse, the challenge page sets a unique cookie to indicate that the user has 
  been verified. Since CloudFlare controls the domains for all of the protected 
  origins, it can potentially link CAPTCHA users across all >2 million 
  CloudFlare sites without violating same-origin policy.

  This protocol solves both of these problems. First, it moves JavaScript
  execution into a consistent browser plugin (for use in TBB etc.) that can be 
  more effectively audited than a piece of ephemerally injected JavaScript. 
  Second, it separates CAPTCHA solving from the request endpoint and eliminates 
  linkability across domains with blind signatures. Furthermore the solution 
  intends to make the lives of such users much easier by drastically lowering 
  the number of CAPTCHAs that are seen by honest users. Crucially this is 
  achieved with no degradation in the current level of abuse protection provided 
  by CloudFlare to current customers of their service.

  In essence, the protocol allows a user to solve a single CAPTCHA and in return
  learn a specified number of tokens that are blindly signed that can be used 
  for redemption instead of witnessing CAPTCHA challenges in the future. For
  each request a client makes to a CloudFlare host that would otherwise demand
  a CAPTCHA solution, a browser plugin will automatically supply a bypass token. 
  By issuing a number of tokens per CAPTCHA solution that is suitable for 
  ordinary browsing but too low for attacks, we maintain similar protective 
  guarantees to those of CloudFlare's current system. We also leave the door 
  open to an elevated threat response that does not offer to accept bypass 
  tokens. 

  The solution we provide is general in the sense that it is agnostic of the 
  edge server (in this case CloudFlare) - the protocol may be of use to similar 
  edge providers who face similar issues. Furthermore while we explicitly talk 
  of CAPTCHAs as a challenge mechanism, our design will be modular enough to 
  incorporate the use of any particular challenge.

1 Participants:
  
  The "edge" proxies connections for a protected website and presents a
  challenge page if the request is deemed malicious. If the challenge is 
  completed successfully then the edge issues tokens to the given user. The edge 
  also consumes these tokens in order to allow bypassing of the challenge page 
  and prevents double spending.

  The "plugin" runs in a user's browser and keeps track of their store of bypass 
  tokens. It detects challenges pages and presents bypass tokens when needed. It 
  also pins keys from challenge pages and validates <meta> tag signatures.

  We will also refer to the "user"/"client" who is responsible for making 
  connection requests to protected websites.

  The original draft states the independence of the "edge" and the "challenge" 
  service that issues tokens upon completion of challenges. We will assume that 
  both these roles are carried out alone by the "edge".

2 Cryptographic preliminaries:

  2.1 Schemes

    This specification uses the following cryptographic building blocks:

      * A public key encryption system PK_KEYGEN()->seckey, pubkey;
        PK_ENCRYPT(pubkey, msg)->ciphertext; and PK_DECRYPT(seckey,
        ciphertext)->msg; where secret keys are of length PK_SECKEY_LEN bytes,
        and public keys are of length PK_PUBKEY_LEN bytes.

      * A public key signature system SIGN_KEYGEN()->seckey, pubkey;
        SIGN_SIGN(seckey,msg)->sig; and SIGN_VERIFY(pubkey, sig, msg) -> { "OK",
        "BAD" }; where secret keys are of length SIGN_SECKEY_LEN bytes, public
        keys are of length SIGN_PUBKEY_LEN bytes, and signatures are of length
        SIGN_SIG_LEN bytes.

        This signature system must also support blind signing (see below).

      * A cryptographic hash function H(d), which should be preimage and
        collision resistant. It produces hashes of length HASH_LEN bytes.

      * A cryptographic message authentication code MAC(key,msg) that produces
        outputs of length MAC_LEN bytes.

    We provisionally instantiate these with

      For both PK and SIGN: 2048-bit RSA using OAEP and PSS (respectively) for
      normal operations.

      For H: SHA256

      For MAC: HMAC-SHA256

  2.2 Blind signing

    This specification uses the following cryptographic tools for blinding and 
    unblinding tokens and corresponding signatures:

      * An algorithm BLIND_GEN(i) -> b_i where b_i is a secret blinding factor for 
      blinding a single token t_i

      * An algorithm BLIND(t_i, b_i) -> t'_i that takes the original token t_i and 
      a blinding factor b_i and outputs a blinded token t'_i

      * (Signing is carried out as above using the standard signing algorithm)

      * An algorithm UNBLIND(t'_i, b_i) -> taking the blinded token and the 
      blinding factor used and outputting the original unblinded token t_i

      * An algorithm UNBLIND-SIG(s'_i, b_i) -> s_i where s'_i is a signature on the 
      blinded token t'_i, b_i is the blinding factor used to retrieve t'_i from 
      t_i and s_i is a valid signature on t_i.

    We use the RSA modification that is described at 
    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blind_signature#Blind_signature_schemes to 
    instantiate the algorithms that we define above. 

    NOTE: In the future we believe it may be preferable to switch to a 
    pairing-based elliptic curve variant that allows for blind signing. 
    For example we may be able to use the variant of BLS signatures described 
    here: 
    http://crypto.stackexchange.com/questions/2424/which-blind-signature-schemes-exist-and-how-do-they-compare
    this would allow for much shorter signatures on tokens. 
    Our construction maintains generality anyway and so switching the specific 
    scheme should not affect the operation of the protocol.
    
  2.3 Keys

    This protocol involves several keys. For clarity, they are:

      * One secret/public keypair for ENCRYPT, used by the plugin to encrypt the
        token contents such that they can only be read by the edge.

      * One secret/public keypair for SIGN, used by the challenge service to sign
        bypass tokens. The plugin SHOULD be distributed with a pinned copy of
        this public key for each supported challenge service. The edge MUST have
        a copy of this public key for any challenge service whose tokens it
        accepts. This key pair *must* be different to the key pair for ENCRYPT to 
        avoid attacks 
        (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blind_signature#Dangers_of_blind_signing).

      * One secret/public keypair for SIGN, used by the edge to sign <meta> tags
        on challenge pages. If the same operator controls both the edge and the
        challenge service, this MUST be different from the keypair used to sign
        bypass tokens because the client has access to a signing oracle under the
        token key (see "Obtaining signatures"). The plugin should be distributed
        with a pinned copy of this public key for each supported edge.

      * A symmetric MAC key derived from each nonce, used by the plugin to bind a
        redeemed nonce to its particular request.

3 Notation 

  - We use the symbol || to denote concatenation
  - All tokens are assumed to be communicated in the hex representation of their 
  byte arrays.

4 Token representation

  The edge issues blindly signed tokens to the user who completes a given 
  challenge that was specified by the edge. The tokens are stored and controlled 
  by a plugin that is present in the client's browser.

  For our purposes tokens will be a JSON object comprising a single "nonce" 
  field. The "nonce" field will be made up of 30 cryptographically random bytes.

  Token JSON:

  {
      nonce: <random 30 bytes>
  }

5 Client-Edge messages 

  The client communicates with the edge using "JSON requests" that can currently
  be used for designating tokens for signing or a single token for redemption 
  and bypassing challenge pages. 

  A JSON signing request takes the form:

  {
      type: "Signing",
      contents: [t'_1, t'_2, ... t'_M]
  }

  where each t'_i is a blinded version of a token taking the form above. 
  A JSON redeeming request takes the form: 

  {
      type: "Redeem",
      contents: [<encrypted token>, <signature>, <HMAC>]
  }

  where the encrypted token is an unblinded token as above, the signature is 
  unblinded and valid over this token and the HMAC is computed over the Host 
  header and HTTP path of the request containing the token. The HMAC is also 
  keyed with the nonce from the "nonce" field in the token JSON.

  The contents field on both of these requests is base-64 encoded before it is 
  sent.

6 Plugin operation

  The browser that is operated by the user will contain an extension known as 
  the "plugin". This plugin will contain pinned public keys for the signing key 
  pairs described above of any edge service that currently engages in bypassing 
  challenges using signed tokens. These public keys will be updated periodically 
  by the edge depending on internal security considerations.

  When the edge issues signed tokens to the user, these will be stored against 
  the public key that correctly validates the signatures on the tokens. When 
  posed with a token redemption request the plugin will choose a token that has 
  not been used yet and send this to the edge along with the paired signature. 

7 Design

  7.1 Generation/signing of tokens

    When a user issues a HTTP request for a website that is protected the edge 
    will respond with a challenge page, for instance containing a CAPTCHA. 
    CAPTCHA responses are typically submitted to a <form> tag on this page. 

    If the edge accepts tokens for bypassing CAPTCHAs then it will add an extra 
    <meta> tag to the <head> of the HTML body with id="captcha-bypass". It will
    also add a certificate for the public key that is currently in use for 
    verifying signatures on tokens.
    A compatible plugin (see 5) should then follow these steps:

      * check the validity of the certificate;
      * check that the public key on the certificate is pinned in the extension;
      * generate M tokens and save them (e.g. 50 < M < 500?);
      * blind them as appropriate;
      * when the challenge solution is sent to the edge, the blinded tokens are 
      sent as part of the body of the HTTP request in a JSON signing request.

    The edge, after performing validation on the rest of the request (i.e.
    checking the CAPTCHA solution), should sign the blinded values and send the 
    signatures comma-separated in the response body as part of a concatenated 
    string.

    The client then:

      * parses each of the signatures and pairs them with the blinded tokens;
      * verifies the signatures;
      * unblinds the signature/token pairings;
      * verifies the unblinded pairs;
      * stores the signed tokens against the pinned edge service public key.

    The client validates the signatures with the pinned key to prevent
    tracking via per-user signing keys.

  7.2 Token redemption
  
    An edge server communicates to a client that it will accept tokens signed by
    a certain challenge service key using the same <meta> tags described above.
    When encountering a page displaying these tags a client does the following:

      * check the validity of the certificate;
      * check that the certificate corresponds to one of the pinned public keys;
      * check if it has available tokens signed by this key;
      * mark the current origin as accepting tokens signed with the given server 
      key;
      * reload the page.

    A client should not reload the page if it tried to redeem a token while
    loading it the first time, to avoid infinite loops.  

  7.3 Edge validation process

    Every time a client sends an HTTP request to an origin marked as accepting 
    tokens for a certain server key, it can send a  "challenge-bypass-token" 
    HTTP header, composed of a JSON redeeming request containing a base-64 
    encoded contents field with the following properties:

      * a yet unused token, encrypted with the corresponding edge identity key;
      * the unblinded signature for that token;
      * a HMAC - keyed with the nonce from the "nonce" field of the token - of 
      the concatenation of the Host header and the HTTP path of the request.

    Used nonces must be deleted immediately by the plugin/client. In practise, 
    the signatures that we use are JWS objects and we store the encrypted token
    directly on the JWS object rather than separately.

    The edge, when receiving such a header performs the following validation on 
    the request:

      * set a "success" bool to true;
      * decrypt the token, if the token is malformed set "success" to false;
      * check the signature on the token, if invalid set "success" to false;
      * check if the token was already used, if so set "success" to false;
      * validate the HMAC using the "host" and "http" information from the 
      verification request, if invalid set "success" to false.

    A server must reject malformed nonces if a client tries to redeem them, even 
    if they come with a valid signature. This is to prevent attacks that 
    exploit the homomorphic property of RSA signatures. 

    If at the end of this process "success" is true, the server SHOULD treat the
    request as coming from a client that solved a CAPTCHA recently. It should 
    not persist this information, as the client MUST spend a different nonce for 
    each request. 

    Finally, the edge also gives the client a single-domain clearance 
    cookie (currently cookies are accepted over multiple domains). This allows
    the client to make future visits to the domain in question without having to
    spend more tokens. This means that we may be able to make considerable 
    reductions in the amount of tokens we hand out which may lead to longer key
    rotation periods and more efficient run-times for generation and 
    verification of tokens in both the edge and browsers.

  7.4 Double-spend detection

    The scheme requires the server to detect nonce reuse with reasonable 
    reliability. However, there might be no need for a zero false positive rate, 
    because if an attacker needs to make 10000 requests to have one succeed, 
    that's possibly an acceptable trade-off.

    Therefore, the server could use data structures such as Bloom filters or 
    cuckoo filters to store tokens that it has witnessed. The parameters of 
    these structures can be chosen to ensure a false-positive probability of any 
    given amount. Cuckoo filters may be more efficient but Bloom filters may be 
    easier to construct.

8 Security considerations

  (Largely taken from previous draft)
  
  8.1 Deanonymization potential

    The current CloudFlare CAPTCHA simply places a cookie allowing you to
    access the website. Since CloudFlare controls the origins, it could
    currently correlate user sessions across multiple circuits using these
    cookies. This is a gap in the Tor Browser threat model- the design
    explicitly ignores linking within a session by malicious first parties, but
    CloudFlare has effectively first-party control over a massive swath of the
    web.

    Our design is an improvement over this state of affairs. Since the CAPTCHA
    service only sees blinded nonces, CloudFlare cannot link a CAPTCHA solution
    session to a given redemption request. Since each token is used only once,
    in contrast to a cookie, the tokens themselves cannot be used to link
    requests.

    The largest vector for deanonymization is something we call the "key
    tagging attack" - in short, CloudFlare could sign nonces using a unique key
    for every user and link the redemption requests (and thus derive the user's
    browsing history) by using the alleged "public" key as an identifier. Our
    design addresses this by pinning the CloudFlare public key in the Tor
    Browser plugin itself. At the very least this ensures that all plugin users
    are seeing the same CloudFlare key.

  8.2 Interception of redemption tokens by malicious exits

    If the target site is accessed over HTTP, there is an opportunity for a
    malicious exit to extract the tokens from the user's requests and replay
    them for its own use. To alleviate this, we include a MAC over the HOST and
    PATH headers for a particular request using the redeemed nonce as a key.
    Since the unblinded nonce is known only to the client and the CAPTCHA
    service endpoint (due to the copy encrypted in the redemption token) it
    constitutes a shared key that allows the service to verify this binding and
    disallow out-of-scope replays. This provides very similar behavior to
    third-party caveats in Google's macaroon design.

  8.3 Token stockpiling

    An attacker who wishes to bypass many CAPTCHAs in the future could
    intentionally trigger CAPTCHAs (e.g. by first running attacks through a
    particular IP) and save the resulting tokens for later.

  8.4 Token exhaustion attacks by malicious exits or sites

    An entity with the ability to inject content (such as a malicious exit or
    website) can spoof requests for bypass tokens. In the absence of logic to
    prevent this, an attacker can induce the TBB plugin to spend all of its
    bypass tokens.


